# CVA6 - Minutes for the biweekly meeting on 19.02.2021

## FPGA:
Pranay: reports the use of combinational loops in RTL code base on cva6-student-contest/* repo. Decides to take up the issues with Sebastien 

Jerome: Combinational loops definitely not recommended.

Mike: Agrees with Jerome.

## Project Management:
Jerome: No progress made in this context.

Duncan: proposed a hybrid task planning approach including both waterfall and sprint approach. Ability to create the plan after requirements are created.
Tools to be selected for task planning.
Reference made to the sprint approach used in cv32e40p.
Explore Github features for planning sprints.

Jerome: in order to have the sprint based approach effectively done there is a need for CI infrastructure.
we can start with the waterfall approach and progressively get into sprints.

Duncan: proposed sharing a common framework for task planning between Arjan and Sifive.

Jerome: suggested for short term milestones and goals with sprint approach, however CVA6 verification team is not yet there!

Duncan: need to converge on a distributed framework that can allow multiple teams to collaborate on the task planning activities.

## Specification and Tooling:

Jerome: Pointed -

1. Specifications document to be started soon and will be followed by the user manual. 
2. Need to decide on the features thar we need from the tools. 
3. Short past experience with "Reqtify" req management tool. Surely not open-source.
4. There is a need to decide on the traceability of requirements, as to what depths it needs to be done.
5. Some cloud based features can be helpful for the collaborating with distributed teams on the management of the requirements.
6. Do we need features for tracing change requests?

Duncan: proposed that the ECRs should trigger notifications to the TWG for any change in the specifications document.

Jerome: pointed that changes can be requested for both in the specs as well as user manual documents. Up to which depth do we want to trace: user manual, Vplan, source code, verification code...?

Mike: Changes to the specs are to be reviewed at the TWG. Changes in user manual restricted to the engineering teams. Requirements tracing to be explored with some tools which are midway between DOORS and excel.
ASCIIDoc can handle more than 100 requirements. Not advisable to go for a tool that binds us with MSDoc. So it is better to investigate on tools which can converge on ASCIIDoc.

<u>ACTION</u>: <br><b>Mike to explore Reqtify and other req mangement tools for fetaures and support for documentation.</b> <br>
<b>Subhra to explore on open source req management tools and collaborate with Mike.</b>

## SV32 Support:

Sebastien: updated on the execution of risc-v-tests for Sv32 incorporation in CVA6 RTL in virtual mode.

Question for Florian whether there should be duplication of files for the Sv32 and Sv39.

Florian: Code duplication can trigger replication of bugs along with. Some parameters for the individual modules may help, and that code duplication needs to be approved by other team members as well.

Duncan: What is meant by the virtual mode?

Sebastien: Mentioned that the simulation was done on Questa Sim using the testbench developed by Jean Roch and Andre Sintzoff.

Jerome: Question to the team if there is a way in risc-v tests that can be used to simulate the way in which OS uses MMU.

Proceeding to Linux can be a way of verifying the MMU operations.

## Design Verification:

Jerome: Question for Mike as to how the verification activities can be planned?

Mike: expressed 2 concerns -
1. Scope of the DUT needs to be finalised. what we need to test? Whether it is just the core or the system along with the interfaces and memory?
2. What are the design goals for CVA6, which should in turn dictate the need for adopting a UVM approach for the design verification around the test bench developed by Jean Roch's team.

Simon: Expressed concern that the software driven verification is quite superficial and cannot be an alternative for the design verification.

Jean Roch: Expressed that the team needs to explore how the existing CVA6 testbench can be integrated into a UVM environment, and that there is a need to define the scope of a verification strategy.

Jerome: when it comes for the design goals, different people can have different verification objectives.
1. Linux based demonstrations are very important to TRT, in order to establish that the hardware supports software in an expected way.
2. On a parallel track Ranjan Barik from R&T India will help on the design verification using UVM and coverage for industrial grade maturation.
3. Currently we are about at TRL 4 with the CVA6 development. The "sustainable" (fully open-source) verification environment TRL target is "about 4.5".
4. UVM and Imperas ISS based verification will target TRL 5 (full coverage).
5. DUT can be defined as those units for which we need a 100% coverage.

Jerome: At this moment, we do not have enough resources to complete TRL 5 in a short timeline. But we can start and attract more contributors on the way.

Mike: UVM setup can be a parallel TRL 5 maturation project.

<u>Action:</u><br>
<b>Mike to prepare a couple of slides for the verification strategy.</b><br>
<b>Mike to establish a first cut setup of UVM environment by integrating the CVA6 testbench with the core-v-verif environment.</b>


## Meeting Ends


